Hello again you lovely God people in this video we're going to display the amount of boxes the player
has available and update that the gooey element.
This video is about boxes because boxers are awesome.
An item list an item list is really awesome.
Let's talk about what we want with this display for disguises.
I want to do the element that shows the disguises as an icon.
It's really easy to do this with the label.
Right.
We could just update the text with the right value so disguises three disguises too.
And I'd like to update that goofy element with the correct number of icons which seems obvious right.
Yep.
Let's get into goller and first thing I do is open the gooey scene.
Here's I go seeing and I'm sure you tweak the suspicion meter.
But I did make a mistake in a previous video I told you to use in a split container which will work
fine.
But remember there was that mouse thing in the way.
I didn't mean that's right click on it to change type.
I meant a box not check box.
That's wrong.
Try that again.
Change type box container.
There it is.
That's the No Limit split container.
It's something that the player can drag which is where that mouth came in.
But now back to h box.
Secondly the suspicion meter a space we're not using here.
So let's go to the top of suspicion meter and make sure I'm moving the parent and all children's some
click on this whatever that is icon and let's drag it down to what looks good to 90 by 120.
Yeah looks good.
Awesome.
All right.
Let's make a brand new element.
I want this in the top left is going to say the sky's at the top and then is going to icons for each
box.
So let's start with a new nine patch rectangle and I need a texture for that so let's put it in the
texture graphics interface.
PRNG and it's going be one of these glass textures.
And this one has a corner on the top left slits do the opposite.
Missing the bottom right.
Let's also drag this out so it's a proximate size as good.
And before we can tell if it looks good or not let's actually do a patch much as we had 12 last and
only 12 12 12 jobs.
That's not 12.
That's 12.
Great.
And you are what you become.
No.
No I quite like this size.
What size of we end up with here.
So that's going to be seat to 70 by 100.
Sounds about right.
So I got my own patch rectangle rectangle to 70 by 100.
You can change this to your heart's content.
Couple of things I want to make sure this is anchored to the top left you see I've got these green things
here.
Press view and show help us noshir rulers show helpers that shows you where you're anchored to.
That's a good place for me.
Let's also put in the same kind of margin we had here.
So let's go to margin and these suspicion me to have a margin of 20.
So let's do the same thing.
So our top managers get 20 and I left margin go with 20.
And we just need a little bit more space like so that looks pretty good.
OK.
Rename this to display container not display container disguise container that would display in my head.
All right.
That is going to split things vertically not horizontally so this is an H box container.
This will be a V box container.
By the way I didn't rename the container because we've got scrips and so on.
You can.
It's not a big issue because we're using groups that won't matter.
But it's also not the end of the world if you leave it as it is.
Okay.
I no longer need to look at anything a suspicion meter.
Let's focus here.
So what that's going to do is it's going to split everything inside it vertically.
The top thing as the top child at the top the second channel underneath and all the way down.
Let's make sure we're using all of this space.
Let's do a full rectangle.
And our first shark would be a label.
This label is going to say disguises.
If you want to call it something else got something else.
It's called.
You'll notice we're not using the theme.
Back up to disguise container and load our feet in.
There it is.
I could do with a bit of a margin of eBox How about five in each direction.
So let's add in our margin five from the left maybe bit more than that Tenten left.
Yes 10 from the top.
Yeah looks good.
So there's our label that's not going to change.
Just go say as it is.
Now there are a couple of ways I could do this.
I can now put in a new box container and then as a child of these put in sprite's okay but I'm going
to use a different note one that's not automate a lot of this work somewhere delete this node and instead
as a child of reebok's container I'm use one called item list item list is no that is designed for things
like inventories and hot baths.
What it'll do is it can create a bunch of items that have an icon and or text right so you can tell
it.
This one has text this one has Nikon This has both.
You'll notice right now it has nothing in it.
First thing I do is scroll down to size flags on the vertical.
Let's go expand.
Let's just say make this some big.
Secondly you notice this doesn't have a theme yet.
Okay we can edit the thing must go to disguise container.
Scroll down to thien.
Click on theme and edit.
We can add a class item of item list and all I want to do is get rid of this background so let's select
item list from a list here and under styles b.g. means background.
Right now there's nothing loaded.
I want something empty.
Click the down arrow and do style box empty and it vanishes.
Awesome.
One thing you will notice by the way if you go back to item list there is nothing here that will let
you add in textures because that's not what this is.
This is basically a grid container with extra functionality.
So if I want to add an item what I do is I got this items button and I press that.
This is really an interface for an array.
Each item is going to have a name.
Or text.
And an icon.
And whether or not enabled.
So let's load in an icon.
And I'm going to go graphics injy tiles.
And just pick the box I pick one to 9.
You can pick 1 5 6.
You can pick whatever you like if you want.
Bring in your own icons is cool but I don't pick one to night.
Okay a few things going on here.
One not a big fan of this size 2.
I don't really want the Texas let's get rid of the tax entirely.
We can change the size of this icon If we click on Icon.
We have a couple of options.
One we can change the scale and here's a zero point five which point yeah.
Nothing has changed.
Well bugging God this won't change.
Let's update it.
I can either leave the scene and come back.
Which by the update or I can drag it.
I don't really want to drag it until everydays.
Next thing I want to do is I want to get rid of this weird scroll bar thing we've got here.
So to do that.
Disliked expand as I like to add again and Ill recite for us.
You'll notice by the way there's probably no reason to have all this room.
Don't worry about that.
Let God worry about how much room we have.
But if you really want to change it put a margin whatever.
Let's make sure that we have enough room somewhere put the next item in.
And I'm just going to duplicate this.
It's going to load in the tile and have no text.
And let's do that one more time.
No text.
Load in a tile.
Wait this is what we want.
Well just like a grid box container.
We need to tell it how many columns we're using right now was using one column.
Let's put them on the same column and say the maximum you can have a more column is what you think.
One two three four five six seven say 7c alagoas you know this is not updating.
Leave and come back shut.
It didn't just click on same column up.
We send text somewhere when we have text because I missed it.
OK.
So now if I click same column they're on the same column unless there's text you or.
And that's looking pretty good.
However at this point I'm going to remove them all because I want this done in code.
So let's delete all of these.
Click on that.
No press delete delete delete.
And they'll go away.
Now let's rename item list to disguise.
Display our disguise displays but a name disguise display.
Let's give it a script.
I'm going to put this in the script folder.
Call it this disguise display.
And we get to go.
OK.
What is this going to do.
Well all I need is a function called updates disguises.
And I'm going to pass in an argument and that argument is going to be the number of disguises.
It doesn't really matter what it's called On the other side.
That's what we're calling it here.
And the very first thing to happen is when we update the disguise clear the disguise.
Otherwise it'll just add to it.
Right.
So if this functions run remove whatever's in there now we are falling for I in range.
No.
What does this mean.
Well this eye isn't declared.
That's fine.
We're just saying has a value any value.
Call it iPhone now and iterate it in the range of no.
We can call a number of disguises we can call it Den's donkey fixation.
It doesn't matter for I for some reason is traditional with a lot of programmers call it disguise it
makes you happy for disguises in range.
No that means every time you do this make disguises go up one until it reaches this value.
So we get the number five.
Do this five times if we get it 205.
Do this two hundred five times.
Thank God.
Well I we want to do.
Well let's take a look at what's available to us in an item list.
So no hok controlled press item list.
Lots and lots of things.
But the one I really care about is ad icon items.
We have an item which will add string texture and a boolean.
But I don't want a string so let's just use the one only as an icon.
What this is going to do is ask for an icon and is the selectable.
I don't want the selectable because this isn't actually a hot bar an invitation to misha's to display
so I'm often flexible.
Okay back to our script.
So I want to add icon item and this is going to ask for a sprite.
Well that's okay because we have these in global.
I'm going to load because it's a string in global global dot box Sprite.
Awesome.
Second value is a selectable FOSS and that's it.
That's all we need.
Before we actually make that work I've got a challenge for you.
So let's save the script and have you update the item list.
I'd like you to figure out a way that we can run this function whenever the plays are the skies.
There's a few different ways you could do this but pause the video and when you're happy with the solution
come on back and I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
All right.
I am tempted to use a group I could use a signal but then I would have to wire it in which I could either
do it inside a level or through code groups feel a lot cleaner and it means that I don't have to worry
about wiring them.
Each time I run the level if I move things around they'll find each other so I mean add this to a group
and a click on disguised display click on groups and call disguise display.
But that's not a small display.
We're also going to copy that the fly and it admittedly using groups for one item like this probably
is going to slow down the code if the game gets too big but at our scale I think it'll work great.
Now I'm going to save this and go into our player which I haven't have open here.
If you don't have an open here go into your file system go to scripts and file player.
Now from here should be quite simple.
I need to scroll down to where it says disguise right.
It's not going to check if we're disguised because we're doing that in toggle.
Can you still disguise yourself.
If so great when you do.
All I need to do is make sure I call it after I update the number of disguises.
So let's do that let's say get tree core group.
And what's the group called.
It's called disguise display.
It's it.
Control be injured give the line.
What function we call it we're calling update disguises.
Copy that and paste that in here.
And we also need to pass an argument.
No argument passing is how many disguises which is a variable we have disguises.
One more thing to do.
I want to make sure I call this in ready.
So in fact let's make a new function.
Let's make a function called Function update disguise display and move this function down here.
And then I can call it right here updates disguised display when I called it display up and do the exact
same thing in ready.
And now assume we have done everything right.
Here's what we should see.
We're going to start the game with three disguises skalak.
I have three disguises.
I press E.
The disguise goes down.
I come out of disguise.
I use it again.
I use it again and now it doesn't matter how many times I press the button and look what if we decide
that in our level scene I play up because we have this is an export variable.
What if we start with 10 disguises.
How's that look.
An automatically updating grid element.
Now the scroll bar isn't in theme but you could do that if you wanted to.
There's a few different ways you can handle this but this is really cool.
We have an automatically updating gooey element with a very few lines of code.
I mean look how little this took.
It was really as simple as a follow up with a little clear set three lines of code plus the function
so forth.
And then a one line function really simple.
And that brings us to the end of this video.
In this video of looks at updating icons using simple group or signal calls you could also do this with
the signal and why item lists are awesome because you can also use this for hot bars for special abilities
and for the Tories.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.